project_structure: add docs for Go library structure (#109)
giantswarm/fmt: go/project_structure/library.md

# Library

This page describes common code structure for our libraries.

The example below is taken from [k8sclient] on 2020/04/16. Most of the files
and directories are elided for simplification.

```
github.com/giantswarm/k8sclient/
├── CHANGELOG.md
├── README.md
├── go.mod
├── go.sum
└── pkg
    ├── k8sclient
    │   ├── clients.go
    │   ├── error.go
    │   ├── setup.go
    │   ├── spec.go
    │   ├── spec_test.go
    │   └── types.go
    ├── k8sclienttest
    │   └── clients.go
    ├── k8scrdclient
    │   ├── crd_client.go
    │   ├── crd_client_test.go
    │   ├── error.go
    │   └── spec.go
    ├── k8srestconfig
    │   ├── error.go
    │   └── rest_config.go
    └── k8sversion
        ├── error.go
        ├── funcs.go
        ├── funcs_test.go
        └── types.go
```

Below there are a few packages discussed.

## Root package

Note that since we use Go modules we don't have any Go files in the root of the
repository. This is because as we bump the major version of the module we need
to use `/vN/` imports. We put everything under subpackages of `/pkg` to avoid
some ugly import aliases like:

```

> k8sclientv3 "github.com/giantswarm/k8sclient/v3"

Reviewer: In order to make that work the `go.mod` file needs to define `module github.com/giantswarm/k8sclient/v3`, which would be good to document as well. See https://github.com/giantswarm/k8sclient/blob/master/go.mod#L1.

Author: > This is because as we bump the major version of the module we needto use `/vN/` imports.

Isn't that the same thing? I'm not sure where to put this information with the current flow of the document. Suggestions welcome.

Reviewer: I forgot to get the `go.mod` file right a couple of times already. The document here does not appear to tell me that. I am not sure if it should tell me that. I just wanted to bring forth the point and it kind of fits when you already suggest to have fancy imports. Because then the question is how to make them actually work.

Reviewer: Also what I figured is that `module github.com/giantswarm/k8sclient/v1` does not work because given `vN` then `N >= 2`.

```

This comes at expense of longer imports of other packages. E.g. instead of
having import like:

```
"github.com/giantswarm/k8sclient/v3/k8scrdclient"
```

We have import like:

```
"github.com/giantswarm/k8sclient/v3/pkg/k8scrdclient"
```

Which seems to be a fair price to pay.

## k8scrdclient

```
./pkg/k8scrdclient
├── crd_client.go
├── crd_client_test.go
├── error.go
└── spec.go
```

- `crd_client.go` holds `CRDClient` type implementation and `Config` type it is
  configured with.
- `crd_client_test.go` holds tests for `CRDClient` type.
- `error.go` holds error definitions for the package.
- `spec.go` holds `Interface` type which is interface for this package (in this
  case interface which `CRDClient` type implements).

This is a typical layout for a package holding a single type providing methods
executing some business logic. In this case `*k8scrdclient.CRDClient`. We often
have corresponding test package, e.g. `k8scrdclienttest` implementing a mock
object implementing `Interface` type.

## k8sversion

```
./pkg/k8sversion
├── error.go
├── funcs.go
├── funcs_test.go
└── types.go
```

- `error.go` holds error definitions for the package.

> - `funcs.go` holds functions which are not methods of any struct (in this case

Reviewer 2: I have to say I'm not personally super thrilled to organize code into files this way. I prefer to have file per context and combine related stuff there, but I might be minority with my opinion.

Author: I didn't mean enforcing here. I rather wanted to provide a default. I understand this doesn't fit everything. That's why I wrote `This is a typical layout`.

TBH it started with `/pkg` and Go modules `vN`. I'm even fine with removing whole `k8scrdclient` section if it feels "offensive".

Reviewer: +1 on not enforcing it. The default guideline makes sense to me.

Reviewer 2: Sorry I was a bit ambiguous here. I meant specifically `funcs.go` (like we similarly have `error.go`, `spec.go` and `types.go`).

I perfectly understand the `/pkg` structure with Go modules `vN` approach. I'm just converting `azure-operator` to Go modules and already hit this specific import "issue" few times.

Having a guideline is good. Strict enforcing not so :slightly_smiling_face:

# Library

This page describes common code structure for our libraries.

The example below is taken from [k8sclient] on 2020/04/16. Most of the files
and directories are elided for simplification.

```
github.com/giantswarm/k8sclient/
├── CHANGELOG.md
├── README.md
├── go.mod
├── go.sum
└── pkg
    ├── k8sclient
    │   ├── clients.go
    │   ├── error.go
    │   ├── setup.go
    │   ├── spec.go
    │   ├── spec_test.go
    │   └── types.go
    ├── k8sclienttest
    │   └── clients.go
    ├── k8scrdclient
    │   ├── crd_client.go
    │   ├── crd_client_test.go
    │   ├── error.go
    │   └── spec.go
    ├── k8srestconfig
    │   ├── error.go
    │   └── rest_config.go
    └── k8sversion
        ├── error.go
        ├── funcs.go
        ├── funcs_test.go
        └── types.go
```

> Below the go.mod file and a few packages discussed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The go.mod file and packages are discussed below.
```

## go.mod file

Since we use Go modules releasing a major version of the library means we also
need to change the import path of the module. The last segment of the module
import must be `/vX` for `vX.Y.Z` releases where `X >= 2`. E.g. for release
`v3.4.5` it must be `v3`. This is important for the libraries as they are
imported in external repositories (as opposed to operators for example) and
they wouldn't be Go module compatible otherwise. It's worth mentioning that
module defined with `/vX` segment is treated as a separate module from the v0
and v1 versions and they can be imported at the same time.

Let's try to illustrate that with `github.com/giantswarm/k8sclient` library
example.

For releases `v0.x.x` and `v1.x.x` in the `go.mod` file there should be a line
like:

```
module github.com/giantswarm/k8sclient
```

For releases `v2.x.x`:

```

> module github.com/giantswarm/k8sclient/v2

Reviewer 3: What happens if this is still `module github.com/giantswarm/k8sclient` and we tag the library as `v2.0.0`? It will just fail to import?

Author: It will fail to import talking about incompatibility.

```

For releases `v3.x.x`:

```
module github.com/giantswarm/k8sclient/v3
```

And so on.

Note that even though the `module` directive changes on major version bumps the
directory layout inside the repository does not.

## Root package

Since we use Go modules we don't have any Go files in the root of the library
repository. This is because as we bump the major version of the module we need
to use `/vN` imports. We put everything under subpackages of `/pkg` to avoid
some ugly import aliases like:

```

> k8sclientv3 "github.com/giantswarm/k8sclient/v3"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import k8sclientv3 "github.com/giantswarm/k8sclient/v3"
```

```

Instead the import will look like:

```

> "github.com/giantswarm/k8sclient/v3/pkg/k8sclient"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import "github.com/giantswarm/k8sclient/v3/pkg/k8sclient"
```

```

This comes at expense of longer imports of other packages. E.g. instead of
having import like:

```

> "github.com/giantswarm/k8sclient/v3/k8scrdclient"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import "github.com/giantswarm/k8sclient/v3/k8scrdclient"
```

```

We have import like:

```

> "github.com/giantswarm/k8sclient/v3/pkg/k8scrdclient"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import "github.com/giantswarm/k8sclient/v3/pkg/k8scrdclient"
```
